From wkt at henry.cs.adfa.oz.au  Wed Jun  4 11:33:19 1997
From: wkt at henry.cs.adfa.oz.au (Warren Toomey)
Date: Wed, 4 Jun 1997 11:33:19 +1000 (EST)
Subject: CSR/vector calculator for the archives (fwd)
Message-ID: <199706040133.LAA00384@henry.cs.adfa.oz.au>

----- Forwarded message from Tom I Helbekkmo -----

To: wkt at csadfa.cs.adfa.oz.au (Warren Toomey)
From: Tom I Helbekkmo <tih at nhh.no>
Subject: CSR/vector calculator for the archives

Hi, Warren!

I've written a CSR and vector calculator, based on VMS documentation
and comparison tested against VMS SYSGEN.  For want of a better name,
I'm simply calling the program 'sysgen' -- this shows its heritage, at
least...  :-)

This should be useful to PDP (and VAX) users who don't have a VMS
system handy, and would like to configure their systems according to
DEC standard.  Would you add it to the PUPS archives and send out an
announcement to the mailing list, please?

Thanks!

-tih

----- End of forwarded message from Tom I Helbekkmo -----

I assume this runs on any box with a C compiler. I've stashed it in the
archive in the Progams section. If you don't have a Unix license, let me know
& I'll email it to you.

	Warren


From wkt at henry.cs.adfa.oz.au  Thu Jun 26 09:54:27 1997
From: wkt at henry.cs.adfa.oz.au (Warren Toomey)
Date: Thu, 26 Jun 1997 09:54:27 +1000 (EST)
Subject: No progress on PDP-11 Unix source licenses, ideas?
Message-ID: <199706252354.JAA04546@henry.cs.adfa.oz.au>

Dear PDP-11 Unix people,

I'm emailing you because I haven't done much in the last few months about
encouraging SCO to sell source licenses for PDP-11 UNIX, and I think it's
time we try a new tack.

The person I've been negotiating with a SCO is Dion Johnson, dionj at sco.com.
I pestered him a lot last year and so perhaps I've worn out my welcome with
him. So I'd like to suggest another approach or two.

Perhaps another person interested in PDP-11 UNIX source licenses can try
talking with Dion or other people at SCO? Any volunteers? Steven Schultz?
Bob Supnik? Alternatively, if nobody comes forward, we could all email Dion
expressing our desires for sources licenses for these old UNIX versions.

Looking at the survey I've been conducting at
http://minnie.cs.adfa.oz.au/PUPS/, at least 130 people are interested in
source licenses, and the general consensus is:

	No resale of license is acceptable
	No source redistribution is acceptable
	50/50 split on single-user-only licenses
	No commercial usage is acceptable
	Full source code is preferable

	Main UNIXes to be covered are 5th,6th,7th Edition and 2BSD.
	Cost of license no more than US$200, max.

After reviewing the email from Dion, I'd add another condition which
would make SCO happy:

	Source license adequately protects SCO's intellectual property,
	in their view.

Anyway, please email your suggestions on what we should do to the PUPS
mailing list (oldunix at minnie.cs.adfa.oz.au) or to me. I think the single
person approach is better than flooding Dion with email. Maybe we can sign
an email petition and deliver that to a number of people at SCO?

Thanks in advance for your input!

	Warren	wkt at cs.adfa.oz.au


From wkt at henry.cs.adfa.oz.au  Fri Jun 27 11:24:14 1997
From: wkt at henry.cs.adfa.oz.au (Warren Toomey)
Date: Fri, 27 Jun 1997 11:24:14 +1000 (EST)
Subject: Petition to SCO for licenses
Message-ID: <199706270124.LAA06719@henry.cs.adfa.oz.au>

Dear PDP-11 UNIX people,

	The small response to my suggestions about lobbying SCO for source
licenses brought some volunteers for the cause, and a preference for a
single petition to SCO rather than mail-bombing :-) If you didn't respond,
please let me know what you think & if you're willing to help out.

I've written a draft petition, which is attached below, and is also
available (with some hyperlinks) at
http://minnie.cs.adfa.oz.au/PUPS/petition.html

Is there anything in the draft you disagree with, or wish to change?
Please let me know!!

	Warren


The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc.
Dear Sirs/Madams,

We, the undersigned, are a group of people who are interested in obtaining
source code and binary copies of the versions of UNIX that ran on the PDP-11
range of computers from Digital Equipment Corporation. We would like to
have copies of these versions of UNIX because:

	+ they are of great historical importance, and/or
	+ we personally own PDP-11 computers on which these systems will run.

The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc. owns the copyright to these very old versions
of UNIX. We understand and appreciate that SCO wishes to protect their
intellectual property within, and ownership of, these versions of UNIX.
Therefore, we wish to petition SCO to make available source code and binary
licenses of these versions of UNIX so that:

	+ we can legally own source code and binaries for PDP-11 UNIXes, and
	+ SCO's copyright and intellectual property is protected.

We would be happy to purchase and be legally bound by a source code and
binary license for PDP-11 UNIXes that meets SCO's requirements, as long as:

	+ the license covers the entire distributions (source code, binaries
	  and documentation) of the following versions of UNIX:

		- 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th Edition UNIX
		- 32V UNIX
		- PWB/UNIX
		- those portions of all 2BSD releases which are derived
		  from UNIX source code

	+ we have the right to make changes to the source code of the
	  above versions of UNIX

	+ we have the right to distribute our changes to other people who
	  have signed and agreed to the source code and binary license for
	  PDP-11 UNIXes

	+ we have the right to install UNIX binaries on PDP-11 hardware
	  and PDP-11 emulating software

	+ we have the right to allow other people to use the UNIX binaries
	  on such an installation

Note that the latter is already permitted, given SCO's binary license agreement
for 5th, 6th and 7th Edition UNIX. We would also be happy with the following
conditions imposed in the source code and binary license for PDP-11 UNIXes:

	+ no resale of the license is permitted
	+ source code covered by the license cannot be distributed or
	  disclosed to people not covered by the license
        + no commercial usage of the source code or binaries is permitted
	+ SCO is not required to include copies of any source code, binaries
	  or documentation with the source code and binary license for PDP-11
	  UNIXes

On a recent survey of people interested in such a license (see
http://minnie.cs.adfa.oz.au/PUPS/), over 120 people responded. Most of
the respondents would agree to a license with the conditions and limitations
outlined above, if the cost of such a license was less than US$200.

We urge you to consider

	+ the historical significance of the UNIX operating system,
	+ that the PDP-11 versions of UNIX are essentially obsolete,
	+ that superior UNIX-like operating systems, libraries and
	  applications are freely available in source code form,
	+ that the source code to 6th Edition UNIX is publically available
	  in printed form (Lion's Commentary on 6th Edition UNIX, Peer to
	  Peer Communications, Inc.)

and make personal-use non-disclosure source code and binaries licenses
for PDP-11 UNIXes available at a price which we can afford as individuals.

The UNIX community has played an extremely important role in the development
and success of the UNIX operating system. The Santa Cruz Operation, Inc., as
owners of the UNIX operating system source, would be repaying the UNIX
community in some measure by providing source licenses for these old versions
of UNIX. Although you would not profit greatly from the licenses, you would
earn the respect and appreciation from many people who helped make UNIX what
it is today.

Thank you for your time. Your response to our petition will be appreciated,
and can be sent via Internet e-mail to Warren Toomey wkt at cs.adfa.oz.au.

Sincerely yours,

	The undersigned


